## Democratization and Liberalization. International Context After the World War 2
* Defeat of Axis powers: win for democratic values
* Closer relations with west and USA
* Uneasy relationships with Soviet Union
* Begining of the cold war era

### Domestic Socio-Economic Pressures
* Inonu's opening speech in the parliment in November 1944.
* In May 1945, Land Distribution Law
	Public and big private lands being distributed to landless peasants.
* Dörtlü Takrir (Memorandum of the Four): After the law entered into effecte, Adnan Menderes, Celal Bayar, Refik Koraltan and Fuat Köprülü submitted a memorandum to the parlimentary party. 
	Memorandum: These people said that there is the right of private land, and they opposed it.

* Then these people created the Demorat Parti in 7 January 1946.
	They accepted the 6 principles of Kemalism.
	They opposed the totalitariansm of the state.

* 1946 Extra Ordinary Congress of RPP
	Direct elections
		Prior to this milletvekilleri choose the başbakan, now people choose başbakan.
	Permanent chairmanship of the party is abolished
		Parti başbakanlığı seçime açıldı.
	National Chief title was abolished.
		Parti dış dünyaya karşı ve iç politikada fazla totaliter veya faşist gözükmek istemedi.

In this era, the 1924 constitiution was in effect, which had no seperation of powers all of the legislative and regulatory powers were in the hands of the parliment.
Meclis yasa yapiyor, meclis cb yi seciyor, 

### Prior to 1946 Elections
Indirect elections: People chose the people that would vote for the parliment, the people chosen vote for the people who will get in the parliment, and the parliment chose the president.

### 1946 Majoritan Election Model
In a district, once a party gets the majority, it takes all of the seats.

### 1950 Elections 14 May
* First Free and Fair elections
* 80% vote casting
* 408 Seats for DP %55 "Yeter Söz Milletin"
* 69 Seats for RPP %40



