**Functions are first-class citizens:** In languages supporting this feature, functions can be passed as arguments, returned as values, and assigned to variables.
## **Three major elements of language**
These elements are fundamentals in the structure and operation of any programming language.

- **Primitives:** Basic elements that the language provides. Strings, booleans, integers etc.
    - **Self-evaluating primitives**: Their value is the object itself. Booleans, strings, numbers.
    - **Built-in procedures:** + , - , * , >, =, string=?, string-lenght
- **Means of Combination:** How different elements can be combined. Ex: (+ 2 3)
- **Means of Abstraction:** The ability to hide details and show only the essential features. (define score 23)

**Question:** What does esoteric mean?

## Scheme Basics
- **Self-evaluating**: Some entities, like numbers, are self-evaluating, which means they evaluate to themselves.
- **Name**: If a name (or identifier) is encountered, the interpreter will return the value associated with that name in the current environment.
- **Special form**: These are syntactic constructs that have a unique evaluation mechanism. For example, `if`, `define`, and `lambda` are special forms in Scheme.
- **Combination**: A combination is a list where the first element is an operator, and the remaining elements are operands. The interpreter evaluates all sub-expressions of the combination and then applies the operator to the values of the operands.

**Question:** Do interpreters evaluate nested primitive statements in bottom-up or top-down fashion?

### Rules For Evaluation
1. If **self-evaluating**, return value.
2. If a **name**, return value associated with name in environment.
3. If a **special form**, do something special.
4. If a **combination**, then
	a.  Evaluate all of the subexpressions of the combination (in any order)
	b. apply the operator to the values of the operands (arguments) and return the result

### Rules For Application
1. If procedure is **primitive procedure**, just do it.
2. If procedure is a **compound procedure**, then: 
	Evaluate the body of the procedure with each formal parameter replaced by the corresponding actual argument value.


## Read-Eval-Print Loop (REPL)
An interactive programming environment where commands are read, evaluated, and the results are printed in a loop.
